#Approach 1
def doubleL(n):
    res = []
    for i in range(n): res.append(i * 2)
    return res

for i in doubleL(5): 
    print(i, end=' : ')

Explanation : 

    It defines a function doubleL that takes an integer n as a parameter.
    Inside the function, it initializes an empty list res.
    It then iterates through the range of n, appends each element multiplied by 2 to the list res.
    Finally, it returns the list res.
    In the loop, it calls doubleL(5) and prints each element with the specified format.

    #Approach 2
for x in [n * 2 for n in range(5)]:
    print(x, end=' : ')

Explanation : 

    It uses a list comprehension to create a list [n * 2 for n in range(5)].
    This list comprehension iterates over the range of 5, multiplies each element by 2, and creates a list with the results.
    In the loop, it iterates through this list and prints each element with the specified format.

    #Approach 3
def doubleG(n):
        for i in range(n):
            yield i * 2

for i in doubleG(5):
        print(i, end=' : ')

Explanation :

    It defines a generator function doubleG that takes an integer n as a parameter.
    Inside the generator function, it iterates through the range of n and yields each element multiplied by 2.
    In the loop, it calls doubleG(5) and prints each element with the specified format.
    The key difference with the generator is that it uses yield, making it a generator function, allowing lazy evaluation.


Question : What type of function is doubleG(n)? What is the advantage of using such a function?

Answer : 

The function doubleG is classified as a generator function in Python. The primary advantage of utilizing a generator function lies in its ability to produce values in a lazy, on-the-fly fashion, thereby avoiding the immediate creation and storage of the entire sequence in memory. This feature is particularly beneficial when working with large datasets, as it mitigates memory usage concerns and contributes to enhanced computational efficiency.

In a generator function, values are yielded incrementally, one at a time, as needed during the iteration process. This characteristic contrasts with functions that generate lists comprehensively, where the entire sequence is generated and stored in memory before any iteration occurs. The lazy evaluation of generators makes them well-suited for scenarios where the complete sequence is not required upfront, leading to optimized memory management and improved performance, especially in resource-intensive applications.
